# Final Project: Opioid Overdose Mortality Data for Georgia (2020)
The data set contains information on the number of opioid overdose deaths and the population of each county in Georgia in 2020. The goal of this study is to examine the relationship between county-level measures of social vulnerability, access to health care, and observed overdose mortality rates. The key variables of interest include: poverty rate, vacancy rate, unemployment rate, percentage of Black population, distance to interstates, and distance to treatment centers.

## Contents of the Repository

`raw_data/`

  - includes the raw_data to generate output and report

`data/`

  - includes the data after preprocessing
  
`code/`

  - includes the code files to preprocess the raw data and create a table1 and plots
  
`output/`

  - includes the output files (table1 and plots)
  
`report/`
  - includes the compiled report

## Code Description

`code/01_data_preprocessing.R`

  - preprocess the data
  - save the data as a `.rds` object in `data/` folder

`code/02_data_structure_table1.R`

  - create a table1 that describes the data
  - save the table as a `.rds` object in `output/` folder
  
`code/03_make_plots.R`

  - create a bar plot that describes the distribution of urban-rural continuum code.
  - create a histogram that describes the distribution of unemployment rate.
  - save the plots as `.png` objects in `output/` folder
  
`code/04_render_report.R`
  - renders `GA_Opioid_Report.Rmd`

`report.Rmd`

  - imports data generated by `code/01_data_preprocessing.R`
  - reads table1 generated by `code/02_data_structure_table1.R`
  - reads plots generated by `code/03_make_plots.R`

## Contents of the Report

  - The GA_Opioid_Report includes the data set structure, Table1 summarizing the characteristics of variables, maps of each variable, bar plot and histogram showing the distribution of some variables (urban-rural continuum code and unemployment rate), and the results of fitting a Poisson regression model.
  
  - For the maps in the report, I just wrote the code in .rmd files because they required the tmap package and could not be saved as .png flies.
  
## Building the Docker image
  - Run `make final_project` to build the Docker image.
  - This is a link to the image on DockerHub: https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/hayoungjung/final_project/general
  
## Generating the report
  - Run `make report/GA_Opioid_Report.html` command in your terminal, and this will sequentially execute the R script files and generate the report.

## Note
  - The report can only be generated on a Mac or Linux OS.